Marching for science - a good idea?
Donald Trump is threatening research. 
"We need to get active," says lecturer Nina Hall.
Demonstrating may send the wrong signal, says student Johannes Müller.
He doesn't want to support anyone whose research is against him or simply doesn't interest him, academics should submit their reports to the government before publication, and important offices should be given to those who are politically on line: 
Donald Trump's attacks on the free sciences make researchers fear for the future of their discipline and their country. 
For months, some of the data has been kept safe.
So let's go, say one of them - on the street, protest and fight for freedom, democracy and enlightenment!
Wait, say the others: 
A march for science, as it will also take place in Berlin on 22 April, is perhaps not such a good idea.
Pro: 
"I'm shocked by the restraint of my colleagues."
"We scientists are in a dilemma:
Most of them are part of the elite that benefits from the very same globalization that Trump and his supporters reject.
Universities are considered by many to be far removed from people's everyday lives.
Thus, even through and through evidence-based and well-thought-out scientific arguments are regarded as tendentious. We will probably not be able to convince many people in these so-called postfactual times.
We, as scientists, must therefore try to address a wider audience more directly and work for open, free and rational dialogue.
However, I fear that the academic world will remain isolated and will not respond sufficiently to the challenge that Trump and other populists present us with. These foment fears, try to split and spread misinformation.
In February, the annual conference of the International Studies Association (ISA) in Baltimore was held with 6,000 scholars.
I had hoped that we would debate how to deal with trump politics and populism.
But the official statements were frighteningly weak:
First of all, the ISA Council even called for a ban on entry into the country not to be allowed to take a "partisan" position on Trump's entry ban.
It was only after the pressure of numerous participants that it was condemned.
In contrast to the American Political Science Association and the American Anthropological Association, however, it was not possible to persuade them to call for its abolition.
I was also surprised that the ISA did not manage to quickly and flexibly create space for a discussion of current events.
As participants, we had to take it upon ourselves to organize discussions and protest actions; the official side hardly made any attention to these activities.
The conference went on as usual for most of the participants, even though about 170 people stayed away from the conference either because of protest against the entry ban or because they were affected by it.
But we must not pretend that everything is the same.
We must take action and build bridges between the world of science and the rest of society - not build walls."
Contra: 
"Scientists should be political - but not because of Trump."
"The March for Science should inspire me.
But perhaps it is not a good idea in the planned form.
Although the basic idea is honourable, I see three great dangers:
First of all, I am concerned about the politicisation of science.
By uniting scientists against Trump, they sometimes reinforce the Republicans' narratives that researchers are a lobby group and not non-partisan, as they themselves claim.
Secondly, in times of fake news and so-called alternative facts, science is often presented as an objective instance that produces facts and thus truths. It's not that simple.
In a broader sense, facts are objective, verifiable observations.
Hypotheses and theories, on the other hand, try to relate these facts to each other and in principle cannot be finally verified, but only falsified.
An example:
The fact that the earth's temperature is rising rapidly is a fact.
That mankind is accelerating global warming is a theory.
Even though the overwhelming number of climate researchers, based on their research results, are convinced that there is an urgent need for action, it is not possible to prove definitively that climate change is man-made.
In contrast to alternative facts, there are indeed alternative hypotheses.
Thirdly, there is a false image of evidence-based policy which would sharpen the march.
The impression has arisen that the opposite of Trump's political style would be a policy based on evidence and evidence and rational.
It is true that the aim of evidence-based policy-making is to objectify political decisions.
However, the task of democratically elected parties is to decide on which hypotheses and priorities politics is based - a process that cannot and should not be exempted from ideology.
I do not mean that we scientists should not be political.
We must continue to campaign for our research results to be heard in politics.
The fact that there are competing theories does not mean that they should be treated on an equal footing and that political decisions are therefore purely questions of faith.
It is also important to celebrate the successes and progress of science. And we should argue for the values of transparency, independence and scientific integrity.
Trump shouldn't be the reason for this."