Marching for science-a good idea?
Donald Trump is threatening research.
"We need to be active," says lecturer Nina Hall.
Demonstrating may send the wrong signal, says student Johannes Müller.
He does not want to promote anyone whose research is contrary to him or is simply not interested in it, academics are to present their reports to the government before publication, get important offices, who are politically on line:
Donald Trump's attacks on free science allow researchers to fear the future of their subject and their country.
For months, some data bring in security.
So go ahead, say the one-to the street, protest and fight for freedom, democracy and enlightenment!
Moment, the others say:
A march for science, as it also takes place on 22 April in Berlin, is perhaps not such a good idea.
Per:
"The reluctance of colleagues shocks me"
"We scientists are stuck in a dilemma:
Most are part of the elite who benefit from the same globalization that Trump and his supporters reject.
For many, universities are considered to be withdrawn and far from people's everyday lives.
Thus, even through and through evidence-based and well thought-out scientific arguments are held for tendentious. Many people are probably not able to convince us in these so-called post-factual times.
As scientists, we must therefore try to direct ourselves to a wider audience and to engage in open, free and rational dialogue.
But I fear that the academic world will remain isolated and not sufficiently responsive to the challenge that Trump and other populists are asking us. These stir up fears, try to divide and falsely spread information.
In February, the annual conference of the International Studies Association (ISA) took place in Baltimore with 6,000 scholars.
I was hoping that we would debate how we deal with Trump's policy and populism.
But the official statements were appallingly weak:
At first, the ISA council even called for no "partisan" position to be allowed to refer to Trump's entry ban.
It was only after the pressure of numerous participants that it was condemned.
Unlike the American Political Science Association and the American Anthropological Association, one could not, however, struggle to demand a waiver.
I was also surprised that the ISA did not manage to create space for a discussion of the current events quickly and flexibly.
We had to take it as a participant ourselves, to organise discussions and protest actions, and from an official point of view this activity was hardly noticed.
So the conference ran out for most of the participants as always, although around 170 people stayed away from it either in protest against the entry ban or because they were affected.
But we must not pretend that everything is as usual.
We need to become active and build bridges between the world of science and the rest of society--not building walls. "
Double:
"Scientists should be political-but not because of Trump"
"The March for science should inspire me.
But perhaps it is not a good idea in the planned form.
Although the basic idea is honorable, I see three major dangers:
First of all, I am concerned about the politicization of science.
By uniting scientists against Trump, they sometimes reinforce the Republicans ' narratives that researchers are a lobby group and not bipartisan, as they themselves claim.
Second, in times of fake news and so-called alternative facts science is often portrayed as an objective instance producing facts and thus truths. But it's not that simple.
In a broader sense, facts are objective, verifiable observations.
Hypotheses and theories, on the other hand, try to relate these facts to each other and can in principle not be definitively verified, but only falsified.
An example:
The fact that the temperature of the air rises strikingly rapidly is.
The fact that humanity is accelerating global warming is a theory.
Although the overwhelming share of climate researchers is convinced by their research results that there is an urgent need for action, it is not possible to prove that climate change is human.
In contrast to alternative facts, there are probably alternative hypotheses.
Thirdly, there is a false picture of evidence-based policy that would sharpen the march.
The impression arose that the opposite to Trump's policy style would be a policy built on evidence and evidence and rational.
It is true that the objective of evidence-based policy-making is to make political decisions more objective.
The task of democratically elected parties, however, is to decide on which hypotheses and priorities policy is based-a process that cannot and should not be made free of ideology.
I do not mean that we scientists should not be political.
We must continue to promote the fact that our research results are heard in politics.
The fact that there are competing theories does not mean that they should be treated on an equal footing and that political decisions are purely questions of faith.
It is also important to celebrate the successes and progress of science. And we should argue for the values of transparency, independence and scientific integrity.
Trump, however, should not be the occasion for that. "