Marching for science - a good idea?
Donald Trump threatens the research.
"We have to become active," says lecturer Nina Hall.
Demonstrate send the wrong signal, says student Johannes Müller.
He does not want to encourage anyone whose research is against him or who simply does not care about him, academics should submit their reports to the government before publication, get important posts, who is politically in line:
Donald Trump's attacks on free science make researchers fear for the future of their field and their country.
For months, some data to safety.
Come on, say some - to the streets, protest and fight for freedom, democracy and enlightenment!
Wait, say the others:
A march for science, as it takes place in Berlin on April 22, may not be such a good idea.
Per:
"The reluctance of colleagues shocked me"
"We scientists are in a dilemma:
Most are part of the elite who benefit from the very globalization that Trump and his supporters reject.
Universities are considered by many to be aloof and far removed from people's everyday lives.
Even through and through, evidence-based and well thought out scientific arguments are considered to be biased. We probably can not convince many people in these so-called post-factional times.
As scientists, therefore, we must try to address more directly to a wider audience and engage in open, free and rational dialogue.
But I fear that the academic world will remain isolated and will not respond adequately to the challenge Trump and other populists are facing. These stir up fears, try to split and to spread false information.
In February, the annual International Studies Association (ISA) conference in Baltimore hosted 6,000 scholars.
I had hoped that we would debate how we deal with Trump's politics and populism.
But the official statements were frighteningly weak:
In the first place, the ISA Council even insisted that it was not allowed to take a "biased" position on Trump's entry ban.
Only after the pressure of many participants was it then condemned.
Unlike the American Political Science Association and the American Anthropological Association, however, one could not bring himself to demand a repeal.
I was also surprised that ISA did not manage to quickly and flexibly create room for a discussion about current events.
We had to take it as a participant in our own hands to organize discussions and protest actions, from the official side was hardly made aware of these activities.
As always, the conference was for most participants, although around 170 people stayed away either in protest against the entry ban or because they were affected.
But we must not pretend that everything is as usual.
We have to become active and build bridges between the world of science and the rest of society - not building walls. "
Cons:
"Scientists should be political - but not for Trump"
"The March for Science should inspire me.
But maybe he is not a good idea in the planned form.
Although the basic idea is honorable, I see three major dangers:
First of all, I'm worried about the politicization of science.
By uniting with Trump, scientists sometimes encourage Republicans' narratives that researchers are a lobbying group and not non-partisan, as they claim.
Second, in times of fake news and so-called alternative facts, science is often portrayed as an objective entity that produces facts and thus truths. It is not that simple.
In a broader sense, facts are objective, verifiable observations.
Hypotheses and theories, on the other hand, try to relate these facts to each other and, in principle, can not be definitively verified, but only falsified.
An example:
The fact that the Earth's temperature is rising rapidly is fact.
That humanity accelerates global warming is a theory.
Even though the overwhelming share of climate researchers is convinced by their research results that there is an urgent need for action - it is not possible to prove conclusively that climate change is man-made.
So, unlike alternative facts, there are certainly alternative hypotheses.
Third, there is a false image of evidence-based policy that would hone the march.
The impression has been made that the opposite of Trump's political style would be a policy based on evidence and evidence and rational.
It is true that the goal of evidence-based policymaking is to make policy decisions more objective.
The task of democratically elected parties, however, is to decide which hypotheses and priorities are based on politics - a process that can not and should not be freed from ideology.
I do not mean that we scientists should not be political.
We must continue to campaign for our research findings to be heard in politics.
The fact that there are competing theories does not mean that one should treat them equally and thus political decisions are purely questions of faith.
It is also important to celebrate the successes and progress of science. And we should argue for the values ​​of transparency, independence and scientific integrity.
But Trump should not be the reason. "